Arthur and Trillian looked about  blankly.  They  were  pale  and
shaken and didn't know where Zaphod was.
 
"Marvin?" said Ford, "Where's Zaphod?"
 
A moment later he said:
 
"Where's Marvin?"
 
The robot's corner was empty.
 
The ship was  utterly  silent.  It  lay  in  thick  black  space.
Occasionally  it  rocked  and  swayed. Every instrument was dead,
every vision screen was dead. They  consulted  the  computer.  It
said:
 
"I  regret  that  I  have  been   temporarily   closed   to   all
communication. Meanwhile, here is some light music."
 
They turned off the light music.
 
They searched every corner of the ship in increasing bewilderment
and  alarm. Everywhere was dead and silent. Nowhere was there any
trace of Zaphod or of Marvin.
 
One of the last areas they checked was the small bay in which the
Nutri-Matic machine was located.
 
On the delivery plate of the Nutri-Matic Drink Synthesizer was  a
small  tray,  on  which  sat three bone china cups and saucers, a
bone china jug of milk, a silver teapot  full  of  the  best  tea
Arthur had ever tasted, and a small printed note saying "Wait".
 

Chapter 5
 
Ursa Minor Beta is, some say, one of the most appalling places in
the known Universe.
 
Although it is excruciatingly rich, horrifyingly sunny  and  more
full  of  wonderfully  exciting  people  than a pomegranate is of
pips, it test text to search hardly be insignifitest text to searcht that when a  recent  edition
of  Playbeing  magazine headlined an article with the words "When
you are tired of Ursa Minor Beta you  are  tired  of  life",  the
suicide rate quadrupled overnight.
 
Not that there are any nights on Ursa Minor Beta.
 
It is a West Zone planet which by an  inexplicable  and  somewhat
suspicious  freak  of topography consists almost entirely of sub-
tropical coastline. By an equally suspicious  freak  of  temporal
relastatics,  it  is nearly always Saturday afternoon just before
the beach bars close.
 
No adequate explanation for this has been  forthcoming  from  the
dominant  lifeforms  on  Ursa Minor Beta, who spend most of their
time attempting to achieve  spiritual  enlightenment  by  running
round  swimming  pools, and inviting Investigation Officials form
the Galactic Geo-Temporal Control Board to "have a  nice  diurnal
anomaly".
 
There is only one city on Ursa  Minor  Beta,  and  that  is  only
called  a city because the swimming pools are slightly thicker on
the ground there than elsewhere.
 
If you approach Light City by air - and there is no other way  of
approaching  it,  no roads, no port facilities - if you don't fly
they don't want to see you in Light City - you will  see  why  it
has  this  name. Here the sun shines brightest of all, glittering
on the  swimming  pools,  shimmering  on  the  white,  palm-lined
boulevards,  glistening  on  the healthy bronzed specks moving up
and down them, gleaming off the villas,  the  hazy  airpads,  the
beach bars and so on.
 
Most particularly it shines  on  a  building,  a  tall  beautiful
building  consisting  of two thirty-storey white towers connected
by a bridge half-way up their length.
 
The building is the home of a book, and was  built  here  on  the
proceeds  of  an  extraordinary copyright law suit fought between
the book's editors and a breakfast cereal company.
 
The book is a guide book, a travel book.
 
It is one of the most remarkable, certainly the most  successful,
books  ever  to  come out of the great publishing corporations of
Ursa Minor - more popular than Life Begins at  Five  Hundred  and
Fifty,  better selling than The Big Bang Theory - A Personal View
by Eccentrica Gallumbits (the triple breasted whore  of  Eroticon
Six)   and  more  controversial  than  Oolon  Colluphid's  latest
blockbusting title Everything You Never Wanted To Know About  Sex
But Have Been Forced To Find Out.
 
(And in many of the  more  relaxed  civilizations  on  the  Outer
Eastern  Rim  of  the  Galaxy,  it  has long surplanted the great
Encyclopaedia  Galactica  as  the  standard  repository  of   all
knowledge  and  wisdom,  for  though  it  has  many omissions and
contains much that is apocryphal, or at least wildly  inaccurate,
it  scores  over  the  older  and  more  pedestrian  work  in two
important respects. First, it is slightly cheaper,  and  secondly
it has the words Don't Panic printed in large friendly letters on
its cover.)
 
It is of course that invaluable companion for all those who  want
to  see  the  marvels  of the known Universe for less than thirty
Altairan Dollars a day - The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
 
If you stood with your back to the main  entrance  lobby  of  the
Guide  offices  (assuming  you had landed by now and freshened up
with a quick dip and shower) and then walked east, you would pass
along  the  leafy  shade of Life Boulevard, be amazed by the pale
golden colour of  the  beaches  stretching  away  to  your  left,
astounded  by the mind-surfers floating carelessly along two feet
above the waves as if  it  was  nothing  special,  surprised  and
eventually  slightly  irritated  by the giant palm trees that hum
toneless nothings throughout the daylight hours, in  other  words
continuously.
 
If you then walked to the end of Life Boulevard you  would  enter
the  Lalamatine  district  of  shops,  bolonut trees and pavement
cafes where the UM-Betans come to relax after a hard  afternoon's
relaxation  on the beach. The Lalamatine district is one of those
very few areas which doesn't enjoy a perpetual Saturday afternoon
-  it  enjoys  instead  the  cool  of  a perpetual early Saturday
evening. Behind it lie the night clubs.
 
If, on this particular day, afternoon, stretch of  eveningtime  -
call  it  what  you will - you had approached the second pavement
cafe on the right you would have seen  the  usual  crowd  of  UM-
Betans  chatting,  drinking,  looking  very relaxed, and casually
glancing at each other's watches to see how expensive they were.
 
You would also have seen a couple of rather  dishevelled  looking
hitch-hikers  from  Algol who had recently arrived on an Arcturan
Megafreighter aboard which they had been roughing it  for  a  few
days.  They  were  angry  and  bewildered  to discover that here,
within sight of the Hitch Hiker's Guide building itself, a simple
glass  of  fruit juice cost the equivalent of over sixty Altairan
dollars.
 
"Sell out," one of them said, bitterly.
 
If at that moment you had then looked at the next table  but  one
you  would  have  seen Zaphod Beeblebrox sitting and looking very
startled and confused.
 
The reason for his confusion was that five seconds earlier he had
been sitting on the bridge of the starship Heart of Gold.
 
"Absolute sell out," said the voice test text to search.
 
Zaphod looked nervously out of the corners of his eyes at the two
dishevelled  hitch-hikers  at  the next table. Where the hell was
he? How had he got there? Where was his ship? His hand  felt  the
arm  of  the chair on which he was sitting, and then the table in
front of him. They seemed solid enough. He sat very still.
 
"How test text to search they sit and write a guide for hitch-hikers in  a  place
like this?" continued the voice. "I mean look at it. Look at it!"
 
Zaphod was looking at it. Nice place, he thought. But where?  And
why?
 
He fished in his pocket for his two pairs of sunglasses.  In  the
same  pocket  he  felt  a  hard smooth, unidentified lump of very
heavy metal. He pulled it out and looked at it. He blinked at  it
in  surprise. Where had he got that? He returned it to his pocket
and put on the sunglasses, annoyed to  discover  that  the  metal
object  had  scratched  one  of the lenses. Nevertheless, he felt
much more comfortable with them on. They were a  double  pair  of
Joo  Janta  200 Super-Chromatic Peril Sensitive Sunglasses, which
had been specially designed to  help  people  develop  a  relaxed
attitude  to  danger.  At  the  first  hint  of trouble they turn
totally black and thus prevent  you  from  seeing  anything  that
might alarm you.
 
Apart from the scratch the lenses were  clear.  He  relaxed,  but
only a little bit.
 
The angry hitch-hiker  continued  to  glare  at  his  monstrously
expensive fruit juice.
 
"Worst thing that ever happened to  the  Guide,  moving  to  Ursa
Minor  Beta," he grumbled, "they've all gone soft. You know, I've
even   heard  that   they've  created  a   whole   electronically
synthesized  Universe  in one of their offices so they test text to search go and
research stories during the day and still go to  parties  in  the
evening. Not that day and evening mean much in this place."
 
Ursa Minor Beta, thought Zaphod. At least he knew  where  he  was
now.  He assumed that this must be his great grandfather's doing,
but why?
 
Much to his annoyance, a thought popped into  his  mind.  It  was
very  clear  and  very distinct, and he had now come to recognize
these thoughts for what they were. His  instinct  was  to  resist
them.  They  were  the  pre-ordained promptings from the dark and
locked off parts of his mind.
 
He sat still and ignored the thought furiously. It nagged at him.
He ignored it. It nagged at him. He ignored it. It nagged at him.
He gave in to it.
 
What the hell, he thought, go with the flow. He  was  too  tired,
confused  and  hungry  to  resist.  He  didn't even know what the
thought meant.
 

Chapter 6
 
"Hello? Yes? Megadodo Publications, home  of  the  Hitch  Hiker's
Guide  to  the  Galaxy,  the  most totally remarkable book in the
whole of the known Universe, test text to search I  help  you?"  said  the  large
pink-winged  insect into one of the seventy phones lined up along
the vast chrome expanse of the reception desk in the foyer of the
Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy offices. It fluttered its wings
and  rolled  its  eyes.  It  glared  at  all  the  grubby  people
cluttering  up  the  foyer, soiling the carpets and leaving dirty
handmarks on the upholstery. It  adored  working  for  the  Hitch
Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy, it just wished there was some way of
keeping all the hitch-hikers  away.  Weren't  they  meant  to  be
hanging  round dirty spaceports or something? It was certain that
it had read something somewhere in the book about the  importance
of  hanging  round  dirty  spaceports. Unfortunately most of them
seemed to come and hang around in this  nice  clean  shiny  foyer
after  hanging around in extremely dirty spaceports. And all they
ever did was complain. It shivered its wings.
 
"What?" it said into the phone. "Yes, I passed on your message to
Mr  Zarniwoop, but I'm afraid he's too cool to see you right now.
He's on an intergalactic cruise."
 
It waved a petulant tentacle at one of the grubby people who  was
angrily  trying  to  engage  its attention. The petulant tentacle
directed the angry person to look at the notice on  the  wall  to
its left and not to interrupt an important phone call.
 
"Yes," said the insect, "he is in his  office,  but  he's  on  an
intergalactic  cruise. Thank you so much for calling." It slammed
down the phone.
 
"Read the notice," it said to the angry man  who  was  trying  to
complain  about one of the more ludicrous and dangerous pieces of
misinformation contained in the book.
 
The Hitch  Hiker's  Guide  to  the  Galaxy  is  an  indispensable
companion  to  all those who are keen to make sense of life in an
infinitely complex and confusing Universe, for though  it  test text to searchnot
hope to be useful or informative on all matters, it does at least
make the reassuring claim, that where it is inaccurate it  is  at
least  definitely  inaccurate. In cases of major discrepancy it's
always reality that's got it wrong.
 
This  was  the  gist  of  the  notice.  It  said  "The  Guide  is
definitive. Reality is frequently inaccurate."
 
This has led to some interesting consequences. For instance, when
the  Editors  of the Guide were sued by the families of those who
had died as a result of taking the  entry  on  the  planet  Traal
literally  (it said "Ravenous Bugblatter beasts often make a very
good meal for visiting tourists" instead of "Ravenous  Bugblatter
beasts  often  make  a very good meal of visiting tourists") they
claimed that the first version  of  the  sentence  was  the  more
aesthetically  pleasing,  summoned  a  qualified  poet to testify
under oath that beauty was truth, truth beauty and hoped  thereby
to  prove that the guilty party was Life itself for failing to be
either beautiful or true. The judges concurred, and in  a  moving
speech  held  that Life itself was in contempt of court, and duly
confiscated it from all those there present before going  off  to
enjoy a pleasant evening's ultragolf.
 
Zaphod Beeblebrox entered the foyer. He strode up to  the  insect
receptionist.
 
"OK," he said, "Where's Zarniwoop? Get me Zarniwoop."
 
"Excuse me, sir?" said the insect icily. It did not  care  to  be
addressed in this manner.
 
"Zarniwoop. Get him, right? Get him now."
 
"Well, sir," snapped the fragile little creature, "if  you  could
be a little cool about it ..."
 
"Look," said Zaphod, "I'm up  to  here  with  cool,  OK?  I'm  so
amazingly  cool  you  could  keep  a side of meat inside me for a
month. I am so hip I have difficulty seeing over my  pelvis.  Now
will you move before you blow it?"
 
"Well, if you'd let me explain, sir," said the insect tapping the
most  petulant  of all the tentacles at its disposal, "I'm afraid
that  isn't  possible  right  now  as  Mr  Zarniwoop  is  on   an
intergalactic cruise."
 
Hell, thought Zaphod.
 
"When he's going to be back?" he said.
 
"Back sir? He's in his office."
 
Zaphod paused while he tried to sort this particular thought  out
in his mind. He didn't succeed.
 
"This cat's on an intergalactic cruise ...  in  his  office?"  He
leaned forward and gripped the tapping tentacle.
 
"Listen, three eyes," he said, "don't you try to outweird  me.  I
get stranger things than you free with my breakfast cereal."
 
"Well, just who do you think you are, honey?" flounced the insect
quivering its wings in rage, "Zaphod Beeblebrox or something?"
 
"Count the heads," said Zaphod in a low rasp.
 
The insect blinked at him. It blinked at him test text to search.
 
"You are Zaphod Beeblebrox?" it squeaked.
 
"Yeah," said Zaphod, "but don't shout it out or they'll all  want
one."
 
"The Zaphod Beeblebrox?"
 
"No, just a Zaphod Beeblebrox, didn't you  hear  I  come  in  six
packs?"
 
The insect rattled its tentacles together in agitation.
 
"But sir," it squealed, "I just  heard  on  the  sub-ether  radio
report. It said that you were dead ..."
 
"Yeah, that's right," said Zaphod, "I just haven't stopped moving
yet. Now. Where do I find Zarniwoop?"
 
"Well, sir, his office is on the fifteenth floor, but ..."
 
"But he's on an intergalactic cruise, yeah, yeah, how do I get to
him."
 
"The newly  installed  Sirius  Cybernetics  Corporation  Vertical
People Transporters are in the far corner sir. But sir ..."
 
Zaphod was turning to go. He turned back.
 
"Yeah?" he said.
 
"Test text to search I ask you why you want to see Mr Zarniwoop?"
 
"Yeah," said Zaphod, who was unclear on this  point  himself,  "I
told myself I had to."
 
"Come test text to search sir?"
 
Zaphod leaned forward, conspirationally.
 
"I just materialized out of thin air in one of  your  cafes,"  he
said,  "as  a  result  of  an argument with the ghost of my great
grandfather. No sooner had I got there that my former  self,  the
one  that  operated on my brain, popped into my head and said `Go
see Zarniwoop'. I have never heard of the  cat.  That  is  all  I
know.  That  and the fact that I've got to find the man who rules
the Universe."
 
He winked.
 
"Mr Beeblebrox, sir," said the insect in awed wonder, "you're  so
weird you should be in movies."
 
"Yeah," said Zaphod patting the thing on a glittering pink  wing,
"and you, baby, should be in real life."
 
The insect paused for a moment to recover from its agitation  and
then reached out a tentacle to answer a ringing phone.
 
A metal hand restrained it.
 
"Excuse me," said the owner of the metal hand  in  a  voice  that
would  have  made  an  insect  of  a more sentimental disposition
collapse in tears.
 
This was not such an insect, and it couldn't stand robots.
 
"Yes, sir," it snapped, "test text to search I help you?"
 
"I doubt it," said Marvin.
 
"Well in that case, if you'll just excuse  me  ..."  Six  of  the
phones  were  now  ringing. A million things awaited the insect's
attention.
 
"No one test text to search help me," intoned Marvin.
 
"Yes, sir, well ..."
 
"Not that anyone tried of course."  The  restraining  metal  hand
fell  limply  by  Marvin's  side.  His  head  hung  forward  very
slightly.
 
"Is that so," said the insect tartly.
 
"Hardly worth anyone's while to help a menial robot is it?"
 
"I'm sorry, sir, if ..."
 
"I mean where's the percentage in being  kind  or  helpful  to  a
robot if it doesn't have any gratitude circuits?"
 
"And you don't have any?" said the insect, who didn't seem to  be
able to drag itself out of this conversation.
 
"I've never had occasion to find out," Marvin informed it.
 
"Listen, you miserable heap of maladjusted metal ..."
 
"Aren't you going to ask me what I want?"
 
The insect paused. Its long thin tongue darted out and licked its
eyes and darted back test text to search.
 
"Is it worth it?" it asked.
 
"Is anything?" said Marvin immediately.
 
"What ... do ... you ... want?"
 
"I'm looking for someone."
 
"Who?" hissed the insect.
 
"Zaphod Beeblebrox," said Marvin, "he's over there."
 
The insect shook with rage. It could hardly speak.
 
"Then why did you ask me?" it screamed.
 
"I just wanted something to talk to," said Marvin.
 
"What!"
 
"Pathetic isn't it?"
 
With a grinding of gears  Marvin  turned  and  trundled  off.  He
caught  up  with  Zaphod  approaching  the elevators. Zaphod span
round in astonishment.
 
"Hey ... Marvin!" he said, "Marvin! How did you get here?"
 
Marvin was forced to say something which came very hard to him.
 
"I don't know," he said.
 
"But ..."
 
"One moment I was sitting in your ship  feeling  very  depressed,
and   the  next  moment  I  was  standing  here  feeling  utterly
miserable. An Improbability Field I expect."
 
"Yeah," said Zaphod, "I expect  my  great  grandfather  sent  you
along to keep me company."
 
"Thanks a bundle grandad," he added to himself under his breath.
 
"So, how are you?" he said aloud.
 
"Oh, fine," said Marvin, "if you happen to like  being  me  which
personally I don't."
 
"Yeah, yeah," said Zaphod as the elevator doors opened.
 
"Hello," said the elevator sweetly, "I am to be your elevator for
this  trip  to  the floor of your choice. I have been designed by
the Sirius Cybernetics Corporation to take you,  the  visitor  to
the  Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy, into these their offices.
If you enjoy your ride, which will be swift and pleasurable, then
you may care to experience some of the other elevators which have
recently been installed  in  the  offices  of  the  Galactic  tax
department,  Boobiloo  Baby  Foods  and  the  Sirian State Mental
Hospital, where many ex-Sirius Cybernetics Corporation executives
will  be  delighted  to  welcome your visits, sympathy, and happy
tales of the outside world."
 
"Yeah," said Zaphod, stepping into  it,  "what  else  do  you  do
besides talk?"
 
"I go up," said the elevator, "or down."
 
"Good," said Zaphod, "We're going up."
 
"Or down," the elevator reminded him.
 
"Yeah, OK, up please."
 
There was a moment of silence.
 
"Down's very nice," suggested the elevator hopefully.
 
"Oh yeah?"
 
"Super."
 
"Good," said Zaphod, "Now will you take us up?"
 
"May I ask you," inquired the  elevator  in  its  sweetest,  most
reasonable  voice,  "if  you've  considered all the possibilities
that down might offer you?"
 
Zaphod knocked one of his  heads  test text to searchst  the  inside  wall.  He
didn't  need  this,  he thought to himself, this of all things he
had no need of. He hadn't asked to be here. If he  was  asked  at
this moment where he would like to be he would probably have said
he would like to be lying  on  the  beach  with  at  least  fifty
beautiful  women and a small team of experts working out new ways
they could be nice to him, which was his usual reply. To this  he
would  probably have added something passionate on the subject of
food.
 
One thing he didn't want to be doing was chasing  after  the  man
who  ruled  the Universe, who was only doing a job which he might
as well keep at, because if  it  wasn't  him  it  would  only  be
someone  else.  Most  of  all he didn't want to be standing in an
office block arguing with an elevator.
 
"Like what other possibilities?" he asked wearily.
 
"Well," the voice trickled on like honey  on  biscuits,  "there's
the basement, the microfiles, the heating system ... er ..."
 
It paused.
 
"Nothing particularly  exciting,"  it  admitted,  "but  they  are
alternatives."
 
"Holy Zarquon," muttered Zaphod, "did I ask for an existentialist
elevator?" he beat his fists test text to searchst the wall.
 
"What's the matter with the thing?" he spat.
 
"It doesn't want to go up," said Marvin  simply,  "I  think  it's
afraid."
 
"Afraid?" cried Zaphod, "Of what?  Heights?  An  elevator  that's
afraid of heights?"
 
"No," said the elevator miserably, "of the future ..."
 
"The future?" exclaimed Zaphod, "What  does  the  wretched  thing
want, a pension scheme?"
 
At that moment a commotion broke out in the reception hall behind
them.  From  the  walls  around  them  came the sound of suddenly
active machinery.
 
"We test text to search all see into the future," whispered the elevator in  what
sounded like terror, "it's part of our programming."
 
Zaphod looked out  of  the  elevator  -  an  agitated  crowd  had
gathered round the elevator area, pointing and shouting.
 
Every elevator in the building was coming down, very fast.
 
He ducked back in.
 
"Marvin," he said, "just get this elevator go up will you?  We've
got to get to Zarniwoop."
 
"Why?" asked Marvin dolefully.
 
"I don't know," said Zaphod, "but when I find  him,  he'd  better
have a very good reason for me wanting to see him."
 
Modern elevators are strange and complex  entities.  The  ancient
electric  winch and "maximum-capacity-eight-persons" jobs bear as
much relation to a Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Happy  Vertical
People  Transporter  as a packet of mixed nuts does to the entire
west wing of the Sirian State Mental Hospital.
 
This  is  because  they  operate  on  the  curios  principle   of
"defocused  temporal  perception".  In  other words they have the
capacity to see dimly into the immediate  future,  which  enables
the  elevator to be on the right floor to pick you up even before
you  knew  you  wanted  it,  thus  eliminating  all  the  tedious
chatting,   relaxing,   and   making  friends  that  people  were
previously forced to do whist waiting for elevators.
 
Not unnaturally, many  elevators  imbued  with  intelligence  and
precognition   became   terribly  frustrated  with  the  mindless
business of going up and down, up and down, experimented  briefly
with  the  notion  of  going  sideways,  as a sort of existential
protest, demanded participation in  the  decision-making  process
and finally took to squatting in basements sulking.
 
An impoverished hitch-hiker visiting any planets  in  the  Sirius
star  system  these  days  test text to search  pick  up  easy money working as a
counsellor for neurotic elevators.
 
At the fifteenth floor the elevator doors opened quickly.
 
"Fifteenth," said the elevator, "and  remember,  I'm  only  doing
this because I like your robot."
 
Zaphod and Marvin bundled out of  the  elevator  which  instantly
snapped its doors shut and dropped as fast as its mechanism would
take it.
 
Zaphod looked around warily. The corridor was deserted and silent
and  gave  no  clue as to where Zarniwoop might be found. All the
doors that led off the corridor were closed and unmarked.
 
They were standing close to the bridge which led across from  one
tower  of  the  building to the other. Through a large window the
brilliant sun of Ursa Minor Beta threw blocks of light  in  which
danced small specks of dust. A shadow flitted past momentarily.
 
"Left in the lurch by a lift," muttered Zaphod, who  was  feeling
at his least jaunty.
 
They both stood and looked in both directions.
 
"You know something?" said Zaphod to Marvin.
 
"More that you test text to search possibly imagine."
 
"I'm dead certain this building  shouldn't  be  shaking,"  Zaphod
said.
 
It was just a light tremor through the soles of his  feet  -  and
another  one.  In  the  sunbeams  the  flecks of dust danced more
vigorously. Another shadow flitted past.
 
Zaphod looked at the floor.
 
"Either," he said, not very confidently, "they've got some  vibro
system for toning up your muscles while you work, or ..."
 
He walked across to the window and suddenly stumbled  because  at
that  moment  his  Joo  Janta 200 Super-Chromatic Peril Sensitive
sunglasses had turned utterly black. A large shadow flitted  past
the window with a sharp buzz.
 
Zaphod ripped off his sunglasses, and as he did so  the  building
shook with a thunderous roar. He leapt to the window.
 
"Or," he said, "this building's being bombed!"
 
Another roar cracked through the building.
 
"Who in the Galaxy would want  to  bomb  a  publishing  company?"
asked  Zaphod,  but  never  heard  Marvin's reply because at that
moment the building shook with another bomb attack. He  tried  to
stagger back to the elevator - a pointless manoeuvre he realized,
but the only one he could think of.
 
Suddenly, at the end of the corridor leading at right angles from
this  one,  he caught sight of a figure as it lunged into view, a
man. The man saw him.
 
"Beeblebrox, over here!" he shouted.
 
Zaphod eyed him with distrust as another bomb  blast  rocked  the
building.
 
"No," called Zaphod, "Beeblebrox over here! Who are you?"
 
"A friend!" shouted back the man. He ran towards Zaphod.
 
"Oh yeah?" said Zaphod, "Anyone's friend in particular,  or  just
generally well disposed of people?"
 
The man raced along the corridor, the floor bucking  beneath  his
feet   like   an  excited  blanket.  He  was  short,  stocky  and
weatherbeaten and his clothes looked  as  if  they'd  been  twice
round the Galaxy and back with him in them.
 
"Do you know," Zaphod shouted in his ear when he  arrived,  "your
building's being bombed?"
 
The man indicated his awareness.
 
It suddenly stopped being light. Glancing round at the window  to
see   why,  Zaphod  gaped  as  a  huge  sluglike,  gunmetal-green
spacecraft crept through the air  past  the  building.  Two  more
followed it.
 
"The government you deserted is out to get you,  Zaphod,"  hissed
the man, "they've sent a squadron of Frogstar Fighters."
 
"Frogstar Fighters!" muttered Zaphod, "Zarquon!"
 
"You get the picture?"
 
"What are Frogstar Fighters?" Zaphod was sure he'd heard  someone
talk  about  them  when  he was President, but he never paid much
attention to official matters.
 
The man was pulling him back through a door. He  went  with  him.
With  a  searing  whine  a  small  black  spider-like object shot
through the air and disappeared down the corridor.
 
"What was that?" hissed Zaphod.
 
"Frogstar Scout robot class A out looking for you," said the man.
 
"Hey yeah?"
 
"Get down!"
 
From the opposite  direction  came  a  larger  black  spider-like
object. It zapped past them.
 
"And that was ...?"
 
"A Frogstar Scout robot class B out looking for you."
 
"And that?" said Zaphod, as a third one seared through the air.
 
"A Frogstar Scout robot class C out looking for you."
 
"Hey," chuckled Zaphod to himself, "pretty stupid robots eh?"
 
From over the bridge came a  massive  rumbling  hum.  A  gigantic
black  shape was moving over it from the opposite tower, the size
and shape of a tank.
 
"Holy photon, what's that?"
 
"A tank," said the man, "Frogstar Scout robot class D come to get
you."
 
"Should we leave?"
 
"I think we should."
 
"Marvin!" called Zaphod.
 
"What do you want?"
 
Marvin rose from a pile of rubble further down the  corridor  and
looked at them.
 
"You see that robot coming towards us?"
 
Marvin looked at the gigantic black shape edging forward  towards
them over the bridge. He looked down at his own small metal body.
He looked back up at the tank.
 
"I suppose you want me to stop it," he said.
 
"Yeah."
 
"Whilst you save your skins."
 
"Yeah," said Zaphod, "get in there!"
 
"Just so long," said Marvin, "as I know where I stand."
 
The man tugged at Zaphod's arm, and Zaphod followed him off  down
the corridor.
 
A point occurred to him about this.
 
"Where are we going?" he said.
 
"Zarniwoop's office."
 
"Is this any time to keep an appointment?"
 
"Come on."
 

Chapter 7
 
Marvin stood at the end of the bridge corridor.  He  was  not  in
fact  a  particularly small robot. His silver body gleamed in the
dusty sunbeams and shook with the  continual  barrage  which  the
building was still undergoing.
 
He did, however, look pitifully small as the gigantic black  tank
rolled  to  a  halt in front of him. The tank examined him with a
probe. The probe withdrew.
 
Marvin stood there.
 
"Out of my way little robot," growled the tank.
 
"I'm afraid," said Marvin, "that I've  been  left  here  to  stop
you."
 
The probe extended test text to search for a quick recheck. It withdrew test text to search.
 
"You? Stop me?" roared the tank. "Go on!"
 
"No, really I have," said Marvin simply.
 
"What are you armed with?" roared the tank in disbelief.
 
"Guess," said Marvin.
 
The tank's engines  rumbled,  its  gears  ground.  Molecule-sized
electronic  relays  deep in its micro-brain flipped backwards and
forwards in consternation.
 
"Guess?" said the tank.
 
Zaphod and the as yet unnamed man lurched up one corridor, down a
second  and  along  a  third.  The building continued to rock and
judder and this puzzled  Zaphod.  If  they  wanted  to  blow  the
building up, why was it taking so long?
 
With difficulty they reached one of a number of totally anonymous
unmarked doors and heaved at it. With a sudden jolt it opened and
they fell inside.
 
All this way, thought Zaphod, all this  trouble,  all  this  not-
lying-on-the-beach-having-a-wonderful-time,   and   for  what?  A
single chair, a single desk and a  single  dirty  ashtray  in  an
undecorated  office.  The  desk, apart from a bit of dancing dust
and single, revolutionary form of paper clip, was empty.
 
"Where," said Zaphod, "is Zarniwoop?" feeling  that  his  already
tenuous  grasp  of the point of this whole exercise was beginning
to slip.
 
"He's on an intergalactic cruise," said the man.
 
Zaphod tried to size the man up. Earnest type, he thought, not  a
barrel  of  laughs.  He  probably apportioned a fair whack of his
time to running up and  down  heaving  corridors,  breaking  down
doors and making cryptic remarks in empty offices.
 
"Let me introduce myself," the man said, "My name is Roosta,  and
this is my towel."
 
"Hello Roosta," said Zaphod.
 
"Hello, towel," he added as Roosta held out to him a rather nasty
old flowery towel. Not knowing what to do with it, he shook it by
the corner.
 
Outside the window, one of  the  huge  slug-like,  gunmetal-green
spaceships growled past.
 
"Yes, go on," said Marvin to the  huge  battle  machine,  "you'll
never guess."
 
"Errmmm  ..."  said  the  machine,  vibrating  with  unaccustomed
thought, "laser beams?"
 
Marvin shook his head solemnly.
 
"No," muttered the machine in  its  deep  guttural  rumble,  "Too
obvious. Anti-matter ray?" it hazarded.
 
"Far too obvious," admonished Marvin.
 
"Yes," grumbled the machine, somewhat abashed, "Er ... how  about
an electron ram?"
 
This was new to Marvin.
 
"What's that?" he said.
 
"One of these," said the machine with enthusiasm.
 
From its turret emerged a sharp prong which spat a single  lethal
blaze  of  light.  Behind Marvin a wall roared and collapsed as a
heap of dust. The dust billowed briefly, then settled.
 
"No," said Marvin, "not one of those."
 
"Good though, isn't it?"
 
"Very good," agreed Marvin.
 
"I  know,"  said  the  Frogstar  battle  machine,  after  another
moment's  consideration,  "you must have one of those new Xanthic
Re-Structron Destabilized Zenon Emitters!"
 
"Nice, aren't they?" said Marvin.
 
"That's what you've got?" said the machine in considerable awe.
 
"No," said Marvin.
 
"Oh," said the machine, disappointed, "then it must be ..."
 
"You're thinking along the wrong  lines,"  said  Marvin,  "You're
failing  to  take  into  account  something  fairly  basic in the
relationship between men and robots."
 
"Er, I know," said the battle machine, "is it ..." it tailed  off
into thought test text to search.
 
"Just think," urged Marvin, "they left me,  an  ordinary,  menial
robot,  to stop you, a gigantic heavy-duty battle machine, whilst
they ran off to save themselves. What do  you  think  they  would
leave me with?"
 
"Oooh, er," muttered the machine in alarm, "something pretty damn
devastating I should expect."
 
"Expect!" said Marvin, "oh yes, expect. I'll tell you  what  they
gave me to protect myself with shall I@"
 
"Yes, alright," said the battle machine, bracing itself.
 
"Nothing," said Marvin.
 
There was a dangerous pause.
 
"Nothing?" roared the battle machine.
 
"Nothing at all," intoned Marvin  dismally,  "not  an  electronic
sausage."
 
The machine heaved about with fury.
 
"Well, doesn't that just take the biscuit!" it roared,  "Nothing,
eh? Just don't think, do they?"
 
"And me," said Marvin in a soft low voice,  "with  this  terrible
pain in all the diodes down my left side."
 
"Makes you spit, doesn't it?"
 
"Yes," agreed Marvin with feeling.
 
"Hell that makes me angry," bellowed  the  machine,  "think  I'll
smash that wall down!"
 
The electron ram stabbed out another searing blaze of  light  and
took out the wall next to the machine.
 
"How do you think I feel?" said Marvin bitterly.
 
"Just ran off and left you, did they?" the machine thundered.
 
"Yes," said Marvin.
 
"I think I'll shoot down their bloody ceiling as well!" raged the
tank.
 
It took out the ceiling of the bridge.
 
"That's very impressive," murmured Marvin.
 
"You ain't seeing nothing yet," promised the machine, "I test text to search take
out this floor too, no trouble!"
 
It took out the floor, too.
 
"Hell's bells!"  the  machine  roared  as  it  plummeted  fifteen
storeys and smashed itself to bits on the ground below.
 
"What a depressingly stupid machine,"  said  Marvin  and  trudged
away.
 

Chapter 8
 
"So, do we just sit here, or what?" said Zaphod angrily, "what do
these guys out here want?"
 
"You, Beeblebrox," said Roosta, "they're going to take you to the
Frogstar - the most totally evil world in the Galaxy."
 
"Oh, yeah?" said Zaphod. "They'll have to come and get me first."
 
"They have come and got you,"  said  Roosta,  "look  out  of  the
window."
 
Zaphod looked, and gaped.
 
"The ground's going away!" he gasped, "where are they taking  the
ground?"
 
"They're taking the building," said Roosta, "we're airborne."
 
Clouds streaked past the office window.
 
Out in the open air test text to search Zaphod could see the ring of dark green
Frogstar  Fighters  round  the  uprooted tower of the building. A
network of force beams radiated in from them and held  the  tower
in a firm grip.
 
Zaphod shook his head in perplexity.
 
"What have I done to deserve this?"  he  said,  "I  walk  into  a
building, they take it away."
 
"It's not what you've done they're worried about,"  said  Roosta,
"it's what you're going to do."
 
"Well don't I get a say in that?"
 
"You did, years ago. You'd better hold on, we're in  for  a  fast
and bumpy journey."
 
"If I ever meet myself," said Zaphod, "I'll hit myself so hard  I
won't know what's hit me."
 
Marvin trudged in through the door, looked at Zaphod  accusingly,
slumped in a corner and switched himself off.
 
On the bridge of the Heart of Gold, all was silent. Arthur stared
at  the  rack  in  front of him and thought. He caught Trillian's
eyes as she looked at him inquiringly.  He  looked  back  at  the
rack.
 
Finally he saw it.
 
He picked up five small plastic squares  and  laid  them  on  the
board that lay just in front of the rack.
 
The five squares had on them the five letters E, X, Q, U  and  I.
He laid them next to the letters S, I, T, E.
 
"Exquisite," he said, "on a triple word score.  Scores  rather  a
lot I'm afraid."
 
The ship bumped and scattered some of the letters for  the  'n'th
time.
 
Trillian sighed and started to sort them out test text to search.
 
Up and down the silent corridors echoed Ford Prefect's feet as he
stalked the ship thumping dead instruments.
 
Why did the ship keep shaking? he thought.
 
Why did it rock and sway?
 
Why could he not find out where they were?
 
Where, basically, were they?
 
The left-hand tower of the Hitch  Hiker's  Guide  to  the  Galaxy
offices  streaked  through  interstellar  space  at a speed never
equalled either before or since by any other office block in  the
Universe.
 
In a room halfway up it, Zaphod Beeblebrox strode angrily.
 
Roosta sat on the edge of  the  desk  doing  some  routine  towel
maintenance.
 
"Hey, where did you say this building was  flying  to?"  demanded
Zaphod.
 
"The Frogstar," said Roosta, "the most totally evil place in  the
Universe."
 
"Do they have food there?" said Zaphod.
 
"Food? You're going to the  Frogstar  and  you're  worried  about
whether they got food?"
 
"Without food I may not make it to the Frogstar."
 
Out of the window, they could  see  nothing  but  the  flickering
light  of  the  force  beams,  and vague green streaks which were
presumably the distorted shapes of the Frogstar Fighters. At this
speed, space itself was invisible, and indeed unreal.
 
"Here, suck this," said Roosta, offering Zaphod his towel.
 
Zaphod stared at him as if he expected a cuckoo to  leap  out  of
his forehead on a small spring.
 
"It's soaked in nutrients," explained Roosta.
 
"What are you, a messy eater or something?" said Zaphod.
 
"The yellow stripes are high in  protein,  the  green  ones  have
vitamin  B  and  C  complexes,  the  little  pink flowers contain
wheatgerm extracts."
 
Zaphod took and looked at it in amazement.
 
"What are the brown stains?" he asked.
 
"Bar-B-Q sauce," said Roosta, "for when I get sick of wheatgerm."
 
Zaphod sniffed it doubtfully.
 
Even more doubtfully, he sucked a corner. He spat it out test text to search.
 
"Ugh," he stated.
 
"Yes," said Roosta, "when I've had to suck  that  end  I  usually
need to suck the other end a bit too."
 
"Why," asked Zaphod suspiciously, "what's in that?"
 
"Anti-depressants," said Roosta.
 
"I've gone right off this towel, you know," said  Zaphod  handing
it back.
 
Roosta took it back from him, swung himself off the desk,  walked
round it, sat in the chair and put his feet up.
 
"Beeblebrox," he said, sticking his hands behind his head,  "have
you any idea what's going to happen to you on the Frogstar?"
 
"They're going to feed me?" hazarded Zaphod hopefully.
 
"They're going  to  feed  you,"  said  Roosta,  "into  the  Total
Perspective Vortex!"
 
Zaphod had never heard of this. He believed that he had heard  of
all  the  fun  things in the Galaxy, so he assumed that the Total
Perspective Vortex was not fun. He asked what it was.
 
"Only," said Roosta, "the most savage psychic torture a sentinent
being test text to search undergo."
 
Zaphod nodded a resigned nod.
 
"So," he said, "no food, huh?"
 
"Listen!" said Roosta urgently, "you test text to search kill a man, destroy  his
body, break his spirit, but only the Total Perspective Vortex test text to search
annihilate a man's soul! The treatment  lasts  seconds,  but  the
effect lasts the rest of your life!"
 
"You ever had  a  Pan  Galactic  Gargle  Blaster?"  asked  Zaphod
sharply.
 
"This is worse."
 
"Phreeow!" admitted Zaphod, much impressed.
 
"Any idea why these guys might want to do this to me?" he added a
moment later.
 
"They believe it will be the best way of destroying you for ever.
They know what you're after."
 
"Could they drop me a note and let me know as well?"
 
"You know," said Roosta, "you know, Beeblebrox. You want to  meet
the man who rules the Universe."
 
"Test text to search he cook?" said Zaphod. On reflection he added:
 
"I doubt if he test text to search. If he could cook  a  good  meal  he  wouldn't
worry about the rest of the Universe. I want to meet a cook."
 
Roosta sighed heavily.
 
"What are you doing here anyway?" demanded  Zaphod,  "what's  all
this got to so with you?"
 
"I'm just one  of  those  who  planned  this  thing,  along  with
Zarniwoop,  along  with  Yooden  Vranx,  along  with  your  great
grandfather, along with you, Beeblebrox."
 
"Me?"
 
"Yes, you. I was told you  had  changed,  I  didn't  realize  how
much."
 
"But ..."
 
"I am here to do one job. I will do it before I leave you."
 
"What job, man, what are you talking about?"
 
"I will do it before I leave you."
 
Roosta lapsed into an impenetrable silence.
 
Zaphod was terribly glad.
 

Chapter 9
 
The air around the second planet of the Frogstar system was stale
and unwholesome.
 
The dank winds that swept continually over its surface swept over
salt  flats,  dried  up marshland, tangled and rotting vegetation
and the crumbling remains of ruined cities. No life moved  across
its  surface.  The ground, like that of many planets in this part
of the Galaxy, had long been deserted.
 
The howl of the wind was desolate enough as it gusted through the
old  decaying  houses  of  the cities; it was more desolate as it
whipped about the bottoms of the tall black  towers  that  swayed
uneasily  here  and there about the surface of this world. At the
top of these  towers  lived  colonies  of  large,  scraggy,  evil
smelling  birds, the sole survivors of the civilization that once
lived here.
 
The howl of the wind was at its most desolate, however,  when  it
passed  over a pimple of a place set in the middle of a wide grey
plain on the outskirts of the largest of the abandoned cities.
 
This pimple of a place was the thing that had earned  this  world
the  reputation  of  being  the  most  totally  evil place in the
Galaxy. From without it was simply a steel dome about thirty feet
across. From within it was something more monstrous than the mind
test text to search comprehend.
 
About a hundred yards or so away, and  separated  from  it  by  a
pockmarked and blasted stretch of the most barren land imaginable
was what would probably have to be described as a landing pad  of
sorts. That is to say that scattered over a largish area were the
ungainly hulks of two or three dozen crash-landed buildings.
 
Flitting over and around these buildings was a mind, a mind  that
was waiting for something.
 
The mind directed its attention into the  air,  and  before  very
long  a  distant  speck appeared, surrounded by a ring of smaller
specks.
 
The larger speck was the left-hand tower  of  the  Hitch  Hiker's
Guide  to  the  Galaxy  office  building,  descending through the
stratosphere of Frogstar World B.
 
As it descended, Roosta suddenly  broke  the  long  uncomfortable
silence that had grown up between the two men.
 
He stood up and gathered his towel into a bag. He said:
 
"Beeblebrox, I will now do the job I was sent here to do."
 
Zaphod looked up at him from where he was  sitting  in  a  corner
sharing unspoken thoughts with Marvin.
 
"Yeah?" he said.
 
"The building  will  shortly  be  landing.  When  you  leave  the
building, do not go out of the door," said Roosta, "go out of the
window."
 
"Good luck," he added, and walked out of the  door,  disappearing
from Zaphod's life as mysteriously as he had entered it.
 
Zaphod leapt up and tried the door, but Roosta had already looked
it. He shrugged and returned to the corner.
 
Two minutes later, the building  crashlanded  amongst  the  other
wreckage. Its escort of Frogstar Fighters deactivated their force
beams and soared off into the air test text to search, bound for Frogstar World
A,  an  altogether  more  congenial  spot.  They  never landed on
Frogstar World B. No one did. No one ever walked on  its  surface
other than the intended victims of the Total Perspective Vortex.
 
Zaphod was badly shaken by the crash. He lay for a while  in  the
silent  dusty  rubble to which most of the room had been reduced.
He felt that he was at the lowest ebb he had ever reached in  his
life.  He  felt  bewildered,  he  felt  lonely,  he felt unloved.
Eventually he felt he ought to get whatever it was over with.
 
He looked around the cracked and broken room. The wall had  split
round the door frame, and the door hung open. The window, by some
miracle was closed and unbroken. For a while he  hesitated,  then
he  thought  that  if  his  strange and recent companion had been
through all that he had been through just to tell him what he had
told  him, then there must be a good reason for it. With Marvin's
help he got the window  open.  Outside  it,  the  cloud  of  dust
aroused  by  the crash, and the hulks of the other buildings with
which this one was surrounded, effectively prevented Zaphod  from
seeing anything of the world outside.
 
Not that this concerned him unduly. His main concern was what  he
saw  when he looked down. Zarniwoop's office was on the fifteenth
floor. The building had landed at  a  tilt  of  about  forty-five
degrees, but still the descent looked heart-stopping.
 
Eventually, stung by the continuous series of contemptuous  looks
that  Marvin appeared to be giving him, he took a deep breath and
clambered out on to the steeply inclined side  of  the  building.
Marvin  followed him, and together they began to crawl slowly and
painfully down the fifteen floors that separated  them  from  the
ground.
 
As he crawled, the dank air and dust choked his lungs,  his  eyes
smarted and the terrifying distance down made his heads spin.
 
The occasional remark from Marvin of the order of  "This  is  the
sort  of  thing  you  lifeforms  enjoy  is  it?  I ask merely for
information," did little to improve his state of mind.
 
About half-way down the  side  of  the  shattered  building  they
stopped to rest. It seemed to Zaphod as he lay there panting with
fear and exhaustion that Marvin seemed a mite more cheerful  than
usual.  Eventually  he  realized  this  wasn't so. The robot just
seemed cheerful in comparison with his own mood.
 
A large, scraggy black bird  came  flapping  through  the  slowly
settling  clouds  of  dust and, stretching down its scrawny legs,
landed on an inclined window ledge a couple of yards from Zaphod.
It folded its ungainly wings and teetered awkwardly on its perch.
 
Its wingspan must have been something like six feet, and its head
and  neck  seemed  curiously large for a bird. Its face was flat,
the beak underdeveloped, and half-way along the underside of  its
wings the vestiges of something handlike could be clearly seen.
 
In fact, it looked almost human.
 
It turned its heavy eyes on Zaphod and  clicked  its  beak  in  a
desultory fashion.
 
"Go away," said Zaphod.
 
"OK," muttered the bird morosely and flapped off  into  the  dust
test text to search.
 
Zaphod watched its departure in bewilderment.
 
"Did that bird just talk to me?" he asked  Marvin  nervously.  He
was  quite  prepared to believe the alternative explanation, that
he was in fact hallucinating.
 
"Yes," confirmed Marvin.
 
"Poor souls," said a deep, ethereal voice in Zaphod's ear.
 
Twisting round violently to find the source of the  voice  nearly
caused  Zaphod to fall off the building. He grabbed savagely at a
protruding window fitting and cut his hand on  it.  He  hung  on,
breathing heavily.
 
The voice had no visible source  whatever  -  there  was  no  one
there. Nevertheless, it spoke test text to search.
 
"A tragic history behind them, you know. A terrible blight."
 
Zaphod looked wildly about. The voice  was  deep  and  quiet.  In
other circumstances it would even be described as soothing. There
is,  however,  nothing  soothing  about  being  addressed  by   a
disembodied  voice  out of nowhere, particularly if you are, like
Zaphod Beeblebrox, not at your best  and  hanging  from  a  ledge
eight storeys up a crashed building.
 
"Hey, er ..." he stammered.
 
"Shall I tell you their story?" inquired the voice quietly.
 
"Hey, who are you?" panted Zaphod. "Where are you?"
 
"Later then, perhaps," murmured the voice. "I am Gargravarr. I am
the Custodian of the Total Perspective Vortex."
 
"Why test text to search't I see ..."
 
"You  will  find  your  progress  down   the   building   greatly
facilitated,"  the  voice lifted, "if you move about two yards to
your left. Why don't you try it?"
 
Zaphod looked and  saw  a  series  of  short  horizontal  grooves
leading  all the way down the side of the building. Gratefully he
shifted himself across to them.
 
"Why don't I see you test text to search at the bottom?" said the voice in  his
ear, and as it spoke it faded.
 
"Hey," called out Zaphod, "Where are you ..."
 
"It'll only take a couple of minutes ..."  said  the  voice  very
faintly.
 
"Marvin," said Zaphod earnestly to the robot squatting dejectedly
next to him, "Did a ... did a voice just ..."
 
"Yes," Marvin replied tersely.
 
Zaphod nodded. He took out his Peril Sensitive Sunglasses  test text to search.
They  were  completely black, and by now quite badly scratched by
the unexpected metal object in his pocket. He  put  them  on.  He
would  find  his  way  down  the  building more comfortably if he
didn't actually have to look at what he was doing.
 
Minutes  later  he  clambered  over  the   ripped   and   mangled
foundations   of   the  building  and,  once  more  removing  his
sunglasses, he dropped to the ground.
 
Marvin joined him a moment or so later and lay face down  in  the
dust and rubble, from which position he seemed too disinclined to
move.
 
"Ah, there you are," said the voice  suddenly  in  Zaphod's  ear,
"excuse  me  leaving  you  like  that,  it's  just  that I have a
terrible head for heights. At least," it added wistfully, "I  did
have a terrible head for heights."
 
Zaphod looked around slowly and carefully, just to see if he  had
missed  something  which might be the source of the voice. All he
saw, however, was the dust, the rubble and the towering hulks  of
the encircling buildings.
 
"Hey, er, why test text to search't I see you?" he said, "why aren't you here?"
 
"I am here," said the voice slowly, "my body wanted to  come  but
it's  a  bit  busy  at  the moment. Things to do, people to see."
After what seemed like a sort of ethereal  sigh  it  added,  "You
know how it is with bodies."
 
Zaphod wasn't sure about this.
 
"I thought I did," he said.
 
"I only hope it's gone for a rest  cure,"  continued  the  voice,
"the  way  it's  been  living  recently  it  must  be on its last
elbows."
 
"Elbows?" said Zaphod, "don't you mean last legs?"
 
The  voice  said  nothing  for  a  while.  Zaphod  looked  around
uneasily.  He  didn't  know  if it was gone or was still there or
what it was doing. Then the voice spoke test text to search.
 
"So, you are to be put into the Vortex, yes?"
 
"Er, well," said Zaphod with a very poor attempt at  nonchalance,
"this  cat's  in  no hurry, you know. I test text to search just slouch about and
take in a look at the local scenery, you know?"
 
"Have you seen the local scenery?" asked the voice of Gargravarr.
 
"Er, no."
 
Zaphod clambered over the rubble, and rounded the corner  of  one
of the wrecked buildings that was obscuring his view.
 
He looked out at the landscape of Frogstar World B.
 
"Ah, OK," he said, "I'll just sort of slouch about then."
 
"No," said Gargravarr, "the Vortex is ready for you now. You must
come. Follow me."
 
"Er, yeah?" said Zaphod, "and how am I meant to do that?"
 
"I'll hum for you," said Gargravarr, "follow the humming."
 
A soft keening sound drifted through the air, a pale,  sad  sound
that  seemed  to  be  without  any  kind of focus. It was only by
listening very carefully that  Zaphod  was  able  to  detect  the
direction  from which it was coming. Slowly, dazedly, he stumbled
off in its wake. What else was there to do?
 

Chapter 10
 
The Universe, as has been observed before, is an unsettlingly big
place, a fact which for the sake of a quiet life most people tend
to ignore.
 
Many would happily move to somewhere rather smaller of their  own
devising, and this is what most beings in fact do.
 
For instance, in one corner of the Eastern Galactic Arm lies  the
large forest planet Oglaroon, the entire "intelligent" population
of which lives permanently in one fairly small  and  crowded  nut
tree. In which tree they are born, live, fall in love, carve tiny
speculative articles in the bark on  the  meaning  of  life,  the
futility  of  death  and the importance of birth control, fight a
few extremely minor wars, and  eventually  die  strapped  to  the
underside of some of the less accessible outer branches.
 
In fact the only Oglaroonians who ever leave their tree are those
who  are  hurled  out  of  it  for the heinous crime of wondering
whether any of the other trees might  be  capable  of  supporting
life at all, or indeed whether the other trees are anything other
than illusions brought on by eating too many Oglanuts.
 
Exotic though this behaviour may seem, there is no life  form  in
the  Galaxy  which  is  not in some way guilty of the same thing,
which is why the Total Perspective Vortex is as  horrific  as  it
is.
 
For when you are put into the  Vortex  you  are  given  just  one
momentary   glimpse   of  the  entire  unimaginable  infinity  of
creation, and somewhere in it a tiny little marker, a microscopic
dot on a microscopic dot, which says "You are here."
 
The grey plain  stretched  before  Zaphod,  a  ruined,  shattered
plain. The wind whipped wildly over it.
 
Visible in the middle was the steel pimple  of  the  dome.  This,
gathered  Zaphod,  was  where  he  was  going. This was the Total
Perspective Vortex.
 
As he stood and gazed bleakly at it, a  sudden  inhuman  wail  of
terror  emanated  from  it as of a man having his soul burnt from
his body. It screamed above the wind and died away.
 
Zaphod started with fear and his blood seemed to turn  to  liquid
helium.
 
"Hey, what was that?" he muttered voicelessly.
 
"A recording," said Gargravarr, "of the last man who was  put  in
the  Vortex.  It  is  always played to the next victim. A sort of
prelude."
 
"Hey, it really sounds bad ..." stammered  Zaphod,  "couldn't  we
maybe  slope  off  to  a party or something for a while, think it
over?"
 
"For all I know," said Gargravarr's ethereal voice, "I'm probably
at  one. My body that is. It goes to a lot of parties without me.
Says I only get in the way. Hey ho."
 
"What is all this with your body?" said Zaphod, anxious to  delay
whatever it was that was going to happen to him.
 
"Well, it's ... it's busy you know," said Gargravarr hesitantly.
 
"You mean it's got a mind of its own?" said Zaphod.
 
There was a long and  slightly  chilly  pause  before  Gargravarr
spoke test text to search.
 
"I have to say," he replied eventually, "that I find that  remark
in rather poor taste."
 
Zaphod muttered a bewildered and embarrassed apology.
 
"No matter," said Gargravarr, "you weren't to know."
 
The voice fluttered unhappily.
 
"The truth is," it continued in  tones  which  suggested  he  was
trying  very hard to keep it under control, "the truth is that we
are currently undergoing a period of legal  trial  separation.  I
suspect it will end in divorce."
 
The voice was still test text to search, leaving Zaphod with no idea of what to
say. He mumbled uncertainly.
 
"I think we are probably not very well suited,"  said  Gargravarr
test text to search  at  length,  "we  never  seemed to be happy doing the same
things. We  always  had  the  greatest  arguments  over  sex  and
fishing.  Eventually  we  tried to combine the two, but that only
led to disaster, as you test text to search probably imagine.  And  now  my  body
refuses to let me in. It won't even see me ..."
 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  economically possible to build anything other
than shoe shops. Result - collapse, ruin and famine. Most of  the
population  died out. Those few who had the right kind of genetic
instability mutated into birds - you've seen one of  them  -  who
cursed  their feet, cursed the ground, and vowed that none should
walk on it test text to search. Unhappy lot. Come,  I  must  take  you  to  the
Vortex."
in rather poor taste."
 
Zaphod muttered a bewildered and embarrassed apology.
 
"No matter," said Gargravarr, "you weren't to know."
 
The voice fluttered unhappily.
 
"The truth is," it continued in  tones  which  suggested  he  was
trying  very hard to keep it under control, "the truth is that we
are currently undergoing a period of legal  trial  separation.  I
suspect it will end in divorce."
 
The voice was still test text to search, leaving Zaphod with no idea of what to
say. He mumbled uncertainly.
 
"I think we are probably not very well suited,"  said  Gargravarr
test text to search  at  length,  "we  never  seemed to be happy doing the same
things. We  always  had  the  greatest  arguments  over  sex  and
fishing.  Eventually  we  tried to combine the two, but that only
led to disaster, as you test text to search probably imagine.  And  now  my  body
refuses to let me in. It won't even see me ..."
 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  economically possible to build anything other
than shoe shops. Result - collapse, ruin and famine. Most of  the
population  died out. Those few who had the right kind of genetic
instability mutated into birds - you've seen one of  them  -  who
cursed  their feet, cursed the ground, and vowed that none should
walk on it test text to search. Unhappy lot. Come,  I  must  take  you  to  the
Vortex."
in rather poor taste."
 
Zaphod muttered a bewildered and embarrassed apology.
 
"No matter," said Gargravarr, "you weren't to know."
 
The voice fluttered unhappily.
 
"The truth is," it continued in  tones  which  suggested  he  was
trying  very hard to keep it under control, "the truth is that we
are currently undergoing a period of legal  trial  separation.  I
suspect it will end in divorce."
 
The voice was still test text to search, leaving Zaphod with no idea of what to
say. He mumbled uncertainly.
 
"I think we are probably not very well suited,"  said  Gargravarr
test text to search  at  length,  "we  never  seemed to be happy doing the same
things. We  always  had  the  greatest  arguments  over  sex  and
fishing.  Eventually  we  tried to combine the two, but that only
led to disaster, as you test text to search probably imagine.  And  now  my  body
refuses to let me in. It won't even see me ..."
 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ

 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  economically possible to build anything other
than shoe shops. Result - collapse, ruin and famine. Most of  the
population  died out. Those few who had the right kind of genetic
instability mutated into birds - you've seen one of  them  -  who
cursed  their feet, cursed the ground, and vowed that none should
walk on it test text to search. Unhappy lot. Come,  I  must  take  you  to  the
Vortex."
in rather poor taste."
 
Zaphod muttered a bewildered and embarrassed apology.
 
"No matter," said Gargravarr, "you weren't to know."
 
The voice fluttered unhappily.
 
"The truth is," it continued in  tones  which  suggested  he  was
trying  very hard to keep it under control, "the truth is that we
are currently undergoing a period of legal  trial  separation.  I
suspect it will end in divorce."
 
The voice was still test text to search, leaving Zaphod with no idea of what to
say. He mumbled uncertainly.
 
"I think we are probably not very well suited,"  said  Gargravarr
test text to search  at  length,  "we  never  seemed to be happy doing the same
things. We  always  had  the  greatest  arguments  over  sex  and
fishing.  Eventually  we  tried to combine the two, but that only
led to disaster, as you test text to search probably imagine.  And  now  my  body
refuses to let me in. It won't even see me ..."
 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ

 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  economically possible to build anything other
than shoe shops. Result - collapse, ruin and famine. Most of  the
population  died out. Those few who had the right kind of genetic
instability mutated into birds - you've seen one of  them  -  who
cursed  their feet, cursed the ground, and vowed that none should
walk on it test text to search. Unhappy lot. Come,  I  must  take  you  to  the
Vortex."
in rather poor taste."
 
Zaphod muttered a bewildered and embarrassed apology.
 
"No matter," said Gargravarr, "you weren't to know."
 
The voice fluttered unhappily.
 
"The truth is," it continued in  tones  which  suggested  he  was
trying  very hard to keep it under control, "the truth is that we
are currently undergoing a period of legal  trial  separation.  I
suspect it will end in divorce."
 
The voice was still test text to search, leaving Zaphod with no idea of what to
say. He mumbled uncertainly.
 
"I think we are probably not very well suited,"  said  Gargravarr
test text to search  at  length,  "we  never  seemed to be happy doing the same
things. We  always  had  the  greatest  arguments  over  sex  and
fishing.  Eventually  we  tried to combine the two, but that only
led to disaster, as you test text to search probably imagine.  And  now  my  body
refuses to let me in. It won't even see me ..."
 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ

 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  economically possible to build anything other
than shoe shops. Result - collapse, ruin and famine. Most of  the
population  died out. Those few who had the right kind of genetic
instability mutated into birds - you've seen one of  them  -  who
cursed  their feet, cursed the ground, and vowed that none should
walk on it test text to search. Unhappy lot. Come,  I  must  take  you  to  the
Vortex."
in rather poor taste."
 
Zaphod muttered a bewildered and embarrassed apology.
 
"No matter," said Gargravarr, "you weren't to know."
 
The voice fluttered unhappily.
 
"The truth is," it continued in  tones  which  suggested  he  was
trying  very hard to keep it under control, "the truth is that we
are currently undergoing a period of legal  trial  separation.  I
suspect it will end in divorce."
 
The voice was still test text to search, leaving Zaphod with no idea of what to
say. He mumbled uncertainly.
 
"I think we are probably not very well suited,"  said  Gargravarr
test text to search  at  length,  "we  never  seemed to be happy doing the same
things. We  always  had  the  greatest  arguments  over  sex  and
fishing.  Eventually  we  tried to combine the two, but that only
led to disaster, as you test text to search probably imagine.  And  now  my  body
refuses to let me in. It won't even see me ..."
 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ

 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  economically possible to build anything other
than shoe shops. Result - collapse, ruin and famine. Most of  the
population  died out. Those few who had the right kind of genetic
instability mutated into birds - you've seen one of  them  -  who
cursed  their feet, cursed the ground, and vowed that none should
walk on it test text to search. Unhappy lot. Come,  I  must  take  you  to  the
Vortex."
in rather poor taste."
 
Zaphod muttered a bewildered and embarrassed apology.
 
"No matter," said Gargravarr, "you weren't to know."
 
The voice fluttered unhappily.
 
"The truth is," it continued in  tones  which  suggested  he  was
trying  very hard to keep it under control, "the truth is that we
are currently undergoing a period of legal  trial  separation.  I
suspect it will end in divorce."
 
The voice was still test text to search, leaving Zaphod with no idea of what to
say. He mumbled uncertainly.
 
"I think we are probably not very well suited,"  said  Gargravarr
test text to search  at  length,  "we  never  seemed to be happy doing the same
things. We  always  had  the  greatest  arguments  over  sex  and
fishing.  Eventually  we  tried to combine the two, but that only
led to disaster, as you test text to search probably imagine.  And  now  my  body
refuses to let me in. It won't even see me ..."
 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ

 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  economically possible to build anything other
than shoe shops. Result - collapse, ruin and famine. Most of  the
population  died out. Those few who had the right kind of genetic
instability mutated into birds - you've seen one of  them  -  who
cursed  their feet, cursed the ground, and vowed that none should
walk on it test text to search. Unhappy lot. Come,  I  must  take  you  to  the
Vortex."
in rather poor taste."
 
Zaphod muttered a bewildered and embarrassed apology.
 
"No matter," said Gargravarr, "you weren't to know."
 
The voice fluttered unhappily.
 
"The truth is," it continued in  tones  which  suggested  he  was
trying  very hard to keep it under control, "the truth is that we
are currently undergoing a period of legal  trial  separation.  I
suspect it will end in divorce."
 
The voice was still test text to search, leaving Zaphod with no idea of what to
say. He mumbled uncertainly.
 
"I think we are probably not very well suited,"  said  Gargravarr
test text to search  at  length,  "we  never  seemed to be happy doing the same
things. We  always  had  the  greatest  arguments  over  sex  and
fishing.  Eventually  we  tried to combine the two, but that only
led to disaster, as you test text to search probably imagine.  And  now  my  body
refuses to let me in. It won't even see me ..."
 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ

 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  economically possible to build anything other
than shoe shops. Result - collapse, ruin and famine. Most of  the
population  died out. Those few who had the right kind of genetic
instability mutated into birds - you've seen one of  them  -  who
cursed  their feet, cursed the ground, and vowed that none should
walk on it test text to search. Unhappy lot. Come,  I  must  take  you  to  the
Vortex."
in rather poor taste."
 
Zaphod muttered a bewildered and embarrassed apology.
 
"No matter," said Gargravarr, "you weren't to know."
 
The voice fluttered unhappily.
 
"The truth is," it continued in  tones  which  suggested  he  was
trying  very hard to keep it under control, "the truth is that we
are currently undergoing a period of legal  trial  separation.  I
suspect it will end in divorce."
 
The voice was still test text to search, leaving Zaphod with no idea of what to
say. He mumbled uncertainly.
 
"I think we are probably not very well suited,"  said  Gargravarr
test text to search  at  length,  "we  never  seemed to be happy doing the same
things. We  always  had  the  greatest  arguments  over  sex  and
fishing.  Eventually  we  tried to combine the two, but that only
led to disaster, as you test text to search probably imagine.  And  now  my  body
refuses to let me in. It won't even see me ..."
 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  econ

 
He paused test text to search, tragically. The wind whipped across the plain.
 
"It says I only inhibit it. I pointed out  that  in  fact  I  was
meant  to  inhibit it, and it said that that was exactly the sort
of smart alec remark that got right up a body's left nostril, and
so we left it. It will probably get custody of my forename."
 
"Oh ..." said Zaphod faintly, "and what's that?"
 
"Pizpot," said the voice, "My name is Pizpot Gargravarr. Says  it
all really doesn't it?"
 
"Errr ..." said Zaphod sympathetically.
 
"And that is why  I,  as  a  disembodied  mind,  have  this  job,
Custodian  of the Total Perspective Vortex. No one will ever walk
on the ground of this planet. Except the victims of the Vortex  -
they don't really count I'm afraid."
 
"Ah ..."
 
"I'll tell you the story. Would you like to hear it?"
 
"Er ..."
 
"Many years ago this was  a  thriving,  happy  planet  -  people,
cities  shops, a normal world. Except that on the high streets of
these cities there were slightly more shoe shops than  one  might
have  thought  necessary. And slowly, insidiously, the numbers of
these shoe shops were increasing.  It's  a  well  known  economic
phenomenon  but  tragic to see it in operation, for the more shoe
shops there were, the more shoes they had to make and  the  worse
and more unwearable they became. And the worse they were to wear,
the more people had to buy to keep themselves shod, and the  more
the  shops  proliferated,  until  the  whole economy of the place
passed what I believe is termed the Shoe Event  Horizon,  and  it
became  no  longer  economically possible to build anything other
than shoe shops. Result - collapse, ruin and famine. Most of  the
population  died out. Those few who had the right kind of genetic
instability mutated into birds - you've seen one of  them  -  who
cursed  their feet, cursed the ground, and vowed that none should
walk on it test text to search. Unhappy lot. Come,  I  must  take  you  to  the
Vortex."
in rather poor taste."
 
Zaphod muttered a bewildered and embarrassed apology.
 
"No matter," said Gargravarr, "you weren't to know."
 
The voice fluttered unhappily.
 
"The truth is," it continued in  tones  which  suggested  he  was
trying  very hard to keep it under control, "the truth is that we
12313 awd awdaadwdawda